.TH MSIEXEC 1 "November 2010" "Wine 8.4" "Wine Programs"
.SH NAME
msiexec \- Wine MSI Installer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B msiexec
.I command
.RI { "required parameter" }
.RI [ "optional parameter" ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B msiexec
is the Wine MSI installer, which is command line
compatible with its Microsoft Windows counterpart.
.SH INSTALL OPTIONS
.IP \fB/i\ \fR{\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR}\ \fR[\fIproperty\fR=\fIfoobar\fR]
Install {package|productcode} with property=foobar.
.IP \fB/a\ \fR{\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR}\ \fR[\fIproperty\fR=\fIfoobar\fR]
Install {package|productcode} in administrator (network) mode.
.IP \fB/x\ \fR{\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR}\ \fR[\fIproperty\fR=\fIfoobar\fR]
Uninstall {package|productcode} with property=foobar.
.IP \fB/uninstall\ \fR{\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR}\ \fR[\fIproperty\fR=\fIfoobar\fR]
Same as \fB/x\fR.
.SH REPAIR OPTIONS
.IP \fB/f\fR\ \
\fR[\fBp\fR|\fBo\fR|\fBe\fR|\fBd\fR|\fBc\fR|\fBa\fR|\fBu\fR|\fBm\fR|\fBs\fR|\fBv\fR]\ \
\fR{\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR}
Repair an installation. Default options are \'omus\'
.IP "\fBp\fR"
Reinstall the file if it is missing.
.IP "\fBo\fR"
Reinstall the file if it is missing or if any older version is installed.
.IP "\fBe\fR"
Reinstall the file if it is missing, or if the installed version is equal or older.
.IP "\fBd\fR"
Reinstall the file if it is missing or a different version is installed.
.IP "\fBc\fR"
Reinstall the file if it is missing or the checksum does not match.
.IP "\fBa\fR"
Reinstall all files.
.IP "\fBu\fR"
Rewrite all required user registry entries.
.IP "\fBm\fR"
Rewrite all required machine registry entries.
.IP "\fBs\fR"
Overwrite any conflicting shortcuts.
.IP "\fBv\fR"
Recache the local installation package from the source installation package.
.SH PATCHING
.IP \fB/p\ \fR{\fIpatch\fR}\ \fR[\fIproperty\fR=\fIfoobar\fR]
Apply \fIpatch\fR. This should not be used with any of the above options.
.SH UI CONTROL
.IP \fB/q\fR[\fBn\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBr\fR|\fBf\fR]
These options allow changing the behavior of the UI when installing MSI packages.
.IP \fB/q\fR
Show no UI.
.IP \fB/qn
Same as \fB/q\fR.
.IP \fB/qb
Show a basic UI.
.IP \fB/qr
Shows a reduced user UI.
.IP \fB/qf
Shows a full UI.
.SH LOGGING
.IP \fB/l\fR[\fB*\fR]\
[\fBi\fR|\fBw\fR|\fBe\fR|\fBa\fR|\fBr\fR|\fBu\fR|\fBc\fR|\fBm\fR|\fBo\fR|\fBp\fR|\fBv\fR]\
[\fB+\fR|\fB!\fR]\ {\fIlogfile\fR}
Enable logging to \fIlogfile\fR. Defaults are \'iwearmo\'.
.IP "\fB*\fR"
Enable all logging options except \'v\' and \'x\'.
.IP "\fBi\fR"
Log status messages.
.IP "\fBw\fR"
Log nonfatal warnings.
.IP "\fBe\fR"
Log all error messages.
.IP "\fBa\fR"
Log start of actions.
.IP "\fBr\fR"
Log action specific records.
.IP "\fBu\fR"
Log user requests.
.IP "\fBc\fR"
Log initial UI parameters.
.IP "\fBm\fR"
Log out of memory errors.
.IP "\fBo\fR"
Log out of diskspace messages.
.IP "\fBp \fR"
Log terminal properties.
.IP "\fBv \fR"
Verbose logging.
.IP "\fBx \fR"
Log extra debugging messages.
.IP "\fB+ \fR"
Append logging to existing file.
.IP "\fB! \fR"
Flush each line to log.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.IP \fB/h
Show help.
.IP "\fB/j\fR[\fBu\fR|\fBm\fR] {\fIpackage\fR|\fIproductcode\fR} \
[\fB/t \fItransform\fR] [\fB/g \fIlanguageid\fR]"
Advertise \fIpackage\fR optionally with \fB/t \fItransform\fR and \fB/g \fIlanguageid\fR.
.IP \fB/y
Register MSI service.
.IP \fB/z
Unregister MSI service.
.IP \fB/?
Same as \fB/h\fR.

.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported on the
.UR https://bugs.winehq.org
.B Wine bug tracker
.UE .
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B msiexec
is part of the Wine distribution, which is available through WineHQ,
the
.UR https://www.winehq.org/
.B Wine development headquarters
.UE .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR wine (1),
.br
.UR https://www.winehq.org/help
.B Wine documentation and support
.UE .
